SQL Server is a relation database management system created and marketed by
Microsoft. For first 20 years of its existence it was only available for windows
platform.
Since SQL Server 2017 edition, Microsoft made it available for Linux as well.

Microsoft SQL Server is tied to T-SQL which is Microsoft's implementation of SQL
with some of its own proprietary features.

SQL Server architecture has two main parts,
  a) Database Engine
  b) SQLOS

Database Engine:
  The core component of SQL server is Database Engine. It consists of a relational
  engine which is responsible for processing queries and a storage engine which is
  responsible for management of data files, pages, indexes etc. Database objects like
  stored procedures, views, triggers etc. are also created and executed by Database engine.

SQLOS - SQLOS stands for SQL Server Operating System. Like other operating systems,
SQLOS handles basic OS related tasks like memory management, IO management, exception
handling and synchronization.

SQL Server Services and Tools:
  Microsoft provides both data management and business intelligence services together
  with SQL Server.
  For data management, SQL Server comes up with following tools and Services
    Tools
      a) SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) (For manage, deploy and monitor database)
      b) SQL Server Data Tools (For database development)
    Services
      a) SQL Server Data Quality Services
      b) SQL Server Master Data Services
      c) SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)

  For data analysis and reporting, SQL Server comes with following tools and services,
    Services
      a) SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)
      b) SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)

Different editions of SQL Server,
  SQL Server Developer edition (Free used for development and testing)
  SQL Server Express edition (Free used for small databases upto 10 GB disk storage)
  SQL Server Standard Edition (License Required)
  SQL Server enterprise Edition (License Required. It is the most powerful version)
